README.md, before:

# cbm64-flight

Learning to create a game where 4 players can fly their own planes on the same immobile screen.

![Commodore 64 screen with a tiley elliptic "world map", 4 small airplane images on top, leaving trails of gray tiles](https://kato.iki.fi/pic/cbm64-flight4planetally-wip-20251105.png)

Assumes
- common ("CGA") user port joystick expansion

## Play now

Game disk and web play link published at [https://korpiq.github.io/](https://korpiq.github.io/)

## build and run

```sh
./build.sh
./run.sh
```

Requires
- cc65 development tools
- `x64` from VICE


## used utilities, documentation, code examples

- sprite editor: https://petscii.krissz.hu/
- ca65 compiler: https://cc65.github.io/doc/ca65.html
- user port joysticks: https://www.protovision.games/hardw/build4player.php?language=en#codeit
- raster interrupts basics: https://www.c64-wiki.com/wiki/Raster_interrupt
- memory map: https://sta.c64.org/cbm64mem.html
- machine code instructions: https://www.masswerk.at/6502/6502_instruction_set.html
- 6502 operation: http://www.6502.org/users/obelisk/6502/

### cut sprites out of SPD file

```sh
dd bs=1 skip=20 count=$[ 64 * NUMBER_OF_SPRITES ] < original.spd > sprites-only.bin
```

## multiplication

## unsigned 8bit x 8bit
  - max 66 cycles with 1k of lookup table data: https://www.txbobsc.com/aal/1986/aal8603.html (scroll to "Fastest 6502 Multiplication Yet")
  - max 120 cycles in 70 bytes of code only: https://www.nesdev.org/wiki/8-bit_Multiply#tepples_unrolled

## signed -64..64
  - -64..64 => -4096..4096, 256B lookup table data: https://www.nesdev.org/wiki/Fast_signed_multiply

Commit message:

added link to hint how to autostart and load rest of file to custom address

README.md, after:

# cbm64-flight

Learning to create a game where 4 players can fly their own planes on the same immobile screen.

![Commodore 64 screen with a tiley elliptic "world map", 4 small airplane images on top, leaving trails of gray tiles](https://kato.iki.fi/pic/cbm64-flight4planetally-wip-20251105.png)

Assumes

- common ("CGA") user port joystick expansion

## Play now

Game disk and web play link published at [https://korpiq.github.io/](https://korpiq.github.io/)

## build and run

```sh
./build.sh
./run.sh
```

Requires

- cc65 development tools
- `x64` from VICE

## used utilities, documentation, code examples

- sprite editor: https://petscii.krissz.hu/
- ca65 compiler: https://cc65.github.io/doc/ca65.html
- user port joysticks: https://www.protovision.games/hardw/build4player.php?language=en#codeit
- raster interrupts basics: https://www.c64-wiki.com/wiki/Raster_interrupt
- memory map: https://sta.c64.org/cbm64mem.html
- machine code instructions: https://www.masswerk.at/6502/6502_instruction_set.html
- 6502 operation: http://www.6502.org/users/obelisk/6502/
- autostart followed by custom memory address for the rest of file: http://www.sizecoding.org/wiki/Commodore_64#Putting_your_program_into_zeropage_overwriting_part_of_CHRGET

### cut sprites out of SPD file

```sh
dd bs=1 skip=20 count=$[ 64 * NUMBER_OF_SPRITES ] < original.spd > sprites-only.bin
```

## multiplication

## unsigned 8bit x 8bit

- max 66 cycles with 1k of lookup table data: https://www.txbobsc.com/aal/1986/aal8603.html (scroll to "Fastest 6502 Multiplication Yet")
- max 120 cycles in 70 bytes of code only: https://www.nesdev.org/wiki/8-bit_Multiply#tepples_unrolled

## signed -64..64

- -64..64 => -4096..4096, 256B lookup table data: https://www.nesdev.org/wiki/Fast_signed_multiply
